# SynoTerm
### Rule based tool for detection of synonymy relations between terms

Version: 1.0
Creation Date: March 31, 1999
Realease Date: February 15, 2022


## 1. Description

## 2. Requirements and Installation

### 2.1 Requirements

  GCC

  Perl

  Flex

  Bisom/Yacc

  Perl/Tk

### 2.2 Installation

  ./configure

  make

## 3. Usage and Cookbook

### 3.1 TO RUN

  type ./SynoTerm


### 3.2 Loading a YaTeA XML Term List

  This section describes the loading of a XML file generated by the term extractor YaTeA [1]

  Menu "Data Loading"

    then "XML Corpus (YaTeA)"

    select a XML file ( output of Yatea)

     then if you want to carry out a free indexing, or if it is the
          corpus for controlled indexing, select "Corpus"

	  if you want to carry out a controlled indexing, and that it
	  is the controlled term list, select "term list"
 

### 3.3 Loading a Relation Dictionary
  
  Menu "Data Loading"

  then "Relation directory"

  select a relatio dictionary (extension .syn), for instance WordNet.syn

    then OK (Poor typography means that words are in capital,
             iso-8859-1 mmeans that dictionary first have to be translated in
             HTML entities)

### 3.4 Relation Acquisition

#### 3.4.1 Free Indexing

    Menu "Relation acquisition"
 
    then "Free indexing"

      you can chose your dictionary and your corpus, if you have
      loaded several.

      you can chose the name of a temporary file (New file) to store
      results during the process.

     then type OK 

         (the acquisition process is generally very fast - few seconds)

     the save the inferred relations :

      Menu "Relation acquisition"

      then "Save inferred relations"

#### 3.4.2 Controlled Indexing

    Menu "Relation acquisition"

    then "Controlled indexing"

      you can chose your dictionary, your term list, and your corpus,
      if you have loaded several.

      you can chose the name of a temporary file (New file) to store
      results during the process.

     then type OK 

         (the acquisition process is generally very fast - few seconds)

     the save the inferred relations :

      Menu "Relation acquisition"

      then "Save inferred relations"

### 3.5 Outputing Inferred Relations

 This can be done before, during or after the validation process.


  Menu "Output"

          'Families' : print the relations in a file with the
                       extension ".families", according to the family
                       view

	  'Classes' : print the relations in a file with the extension
	              ".classes", according to the class view

	  'Relation list' : print the relations in a raw file. Each
	              line contains a relation with related informatin
	              (rule for the inference, relationship, and
	              validation). Each term is lemmatized.

	  'Relation list (inlfected forms)' : print the relations in a
	                  raw file. Each line contains a relation with
	                  related informatin (rule for the inference,
	                  relationship, and validation). Each term is
	                  inflected.

	  'Terminae (not XML)' : specific output for Terminae, it seems not be used yet

	  'XML' : print the relations in a XML file (SynoTerm.dtd) and can be used in Terminae



### 3.6 Loading Results for Validation

  Menu Data Loading

    then "Inferred relation" 

       Select the file with the extension ".res.db"


### 3.7 Validation Process

  In the menu validation, you have two views : family and class

  Family view shows the results according to the initial relation used
  to infer synonnymy relation between terms

  Class view shows results gathered as connected components

  Interface has very similar functionnnalities for both views 

    First line of buttons help to navigate between the
    classes/families

    Second line contains two buttons to "save validation and display
    the next classes/families", or "reject all the relations and
    display the next classes/families" (with the latter button, you
    don't need to reject each relation).

    The last part displays relations.

          the left part is used to indicate if the relation is valid
          (Y), not valid (N), or that it's impossible to make a
          decision (?).

          The right part could be useful to modifu the type of the
          relation. But here, it is not useful.


### 3.8 Validation Recording

      Menu "Relation acquisition"

      then "Save inferred relations"

### 3.9 Generating a Wordnet [2] Relation Dictionay

 If you don't have WordNet.syn file, you can generate it with
 Synoterm, from the WordNet distribution :

  Menu Data Loading

   then "Generate relation dictionary from WordNet

      Select the Wordnet directory (SynoTerm checks that is contains
      the sub directory "dict", and the files "data.adj", "data.adv",
      "data.noun" and "data.verb"

   The WordNet relation dictionary is generated in the current
   directory (generally where you run SynoTerm)


 WordNet distribution is available here :

   http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/

### 3.10 Troubleshooting

  Usual problem when runing SynoTerm is the lack of '.' in the
  PATH. You can add this a the run time, in your shell, like this :

          PATH=.:$PATH

  Don't forget :

    THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTIES,
    INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND
    NON-INFRINGEMENT.  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS,
    AND THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS HAVE NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE
    MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.

## 4. Acknowledgements

If you use SynoTerm, please cite the following paper:

Thierry Hamon et Adeline Nazarenko. "Detection of synonymy links
between terms: experiment and results", Recent Advances in
Computational Terminology. Pages 185-208. John Benjamins, 2001.

## 5. License

This work (the annotations) is licensed under the Creative Commons
Zero v1.0 Universal.

## 6. References

[1] http://search.cpan.org/~thhamon/Lingua-YaTeA/

[2] http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/

